---
layout: post
title:  "CORS - Cross-origin resource sharing"
date:   2020-08-17 13:49:00 -0700
categories: [JavaScript, HTTP]
---

CORS is a mechanism that use additional HTTP headers 
to tell browser to give web application running at one
origin access to selected resources from a different origin.

Same-origin policy prevents JavaScript from making requests across domain boundaries.
Two URLs have the same origin if the protocol, port and host are the same for both

A web application executes a cross-origin HTTP request when it requests a resource
that has a different origin (protocol, post or host) from its own.

### Preflight request
For HTTP request methods than can cause side effects on server data, CORS
specification mandates that browser make "preflight" request. Preflight request
is made with HTTP `OPTIONS` request method and upon approval from server
send the actual request.

### Simple requests
Simple requests are `GET` or `POST` with no custom headers and whose
body is `text/plain`, the request is sent with an extra header `ORIGIN`.
The `ORIGIN` header contains origin (protocol, post or host) of the requesting
page. If the server decides to allow the request it sends a `Access-Control-Alow-Origin`
header sending back same origin or `*` if its a public resource.

### Request with credentials
By default cross domain requests will not send credentials (cookies etc.).
With property `withCredentials` set to `true` on `XMLHTTPRequest` ,
the credentials can be sent in the request. But the browser will
reject the response if response doesn't have `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true`. 


### References
- [Enable CORS](https://enable-cors.org/index.html)
- [Cross-domain Ajax with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](https://humanwhocodes.com/blog/2010/05/25/cross-domain-ajax-with-cross-origin-resource-sharing/)
- [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
- [Same-origin policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)
- [Fetch: Cross-Origin Requests](https://javascript.info/fetch-crossorigin)